# Pass_on [PHP IMPLEMENTATION]
For a college project we had to come up with a completely functioning web app which has a solid PHP based Database to show the Implementation of RDBMS in websites.
We ended up creating our own front end(Pass_On ) using  : <br> <ul > <li> HTML5</li><br> <li> CSS3 and Bootstrap </li><br> <li> JS </li><br>
And then the backend using XAMPP and SQL embedded in PHP files .

 <h2> Description : </h2>
 <br>
  Pass on provides a web based interface implemented using HTML5, CSS and Java script. The website has a ‘Home’ page, ‘Sell’ page, ‘Buy’ page and a ‘Contact us’ page. It also two articles specifying why one should consider our services and how the environment benefits from the same. The users are required to register and login using an email and password. Only authorised users are allowed to post ads and purchase books. The website has a form using which a user can post their ad. The ‘Sell’ page consists of a ‘Name’ field, an ‘Email’ field, a ‘Subject’ field and ‘Message’ box which requires the user to mention the condition of the book they are selling and the price they are quoting for it. An ‘Choose file’ option prompts the user to upload an image of the book in jpeg form. After filling all the requirements they are required to click on the ‘Submit AD for verification’ button. All this information is stored in a database in their respective fields. <br><br>
The database is implemented using PHP and MySql. PHP (recursive acronym for PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is a widely-used open source general-purpose scripting language that is especially suited for web development and can be embedded into HTML. As PHP is maintained by multiple developers, bugs are quickly rectified. MySQL is a relational database management system. A relational database stores information in different tables, rather than in one giant table. These tables can be referenced to each other, to access and maintain data easily. It is fast, reliable and easy to use.<br><br>
The database assigns an id for each book and stores the title, condition, image and price of a book along with the contact information of the user posting the advertisement. The ‘Buy’ page allows the user to search for a particular book by its title. It also provides an option to sort the available books based on the branch the subject belongs to. Based on the user’s queries, the most relevant results are fetched from the database and displayed and the option to contact the seller is provided
